Structured data, or
data with a high degree of organization.
They are typically organized into to
columns and rows, like in a spreadsheet.
Sometimes columns are also
called fields, and
rows are referred to as records.
And these terms may end up being used
interchangeably, throughout the course.
Each column represents a variable, and
each row represents a record of data.
Structured data is often
stored in databases or files,
such as spreadsheets, and
it's usually easily accessible.
But, most importantly, it's easy to use.
Unstructured data, however,
can have no structure to it at all.
Since the data isn't organized into a
typical columns or rows format, it could
be time consuming to work with, as you
have to pull what you want out of it.
Some examples of this type of data are a
resume, a tweet or a contract document.
Semi-structured data is data that
has some structure to it, but
still requires some work to put it into
a structure format of columns and rows.
This could be a computer system
log file that requires parsing and
manipulating, to put into a format
that makes the data easier to analyze.
Another example could be a catalog
of music CDs in an XML file,
where you can clearly see a structure,
with each CD having a TITLE,
Artist, COUNTRY, COMPANY,
PRICE and YEAR, but
it's not in the typical columns and
rows format.
So it still needs a bit of work, to get
in to a format that can be easily used.